Add blog post for job tracking with finalizers GA (#37438)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-12-01-scalable-job-tracking-ga/index.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Scalable Job tracking goes GA to support massively parallel batch workloads"
date: 2022-12-01
slug: "scalable-job-tracking-ga"
---

**Authors:** Aldo Culquicondor (Google)

The Kubernetes 1.26 release includes a stable implementation of the Job
controller that can reliably track a large amount of Jobs with high levels of
parallelism. SIG Apps have worked on this foundational improvement, under

> the feature gate `JobTrackingWithFinalizers`, since Kubernetes 1.22. After

Reviewer: I'd avoid mentioning the feature gate since it's not really relevant after the GA

multiple iterations and scale verifications, this is now the default
implementation of the Job controller.

Paired with the Indexed [completion mode](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#completion-mode),
the Job controller can handle massively parallel batch Jobs, supporting up to

> 100 thousand concurrent Pods.

Reviewer: curious if 100,000 concurrent pods have been tested?

Author: I tested 10k, which runs in ~200s at 100 QPS. But the API allows up to 100k.

The new implementation also enables better control over failures and retries,
in combination with [Pod failure policy](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#pod-failure-policy),

> currently in Beta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in Beta as of 1.26.
```

Generally, Kubernetes workload controllers, such as ReplicaSet or StatefulSet,
rely on the existence of Pods or other objects in the API to determine the
status of the Workload and whether replacements are needed.
For example, if a Pod that belonged to a ReplicaSet terminates or ceases to
exist, the ReplicaSet controller needs to create a replacement Pod to satisfy
the `.spec.replicas` field.

Since its inception, the Job controller also relied on the existence of Pods in
the API to track Job status. A Job has [completion](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#completion-mode)
and [failure handling](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#handling-pod-and-container-failures)
policies, requiring the end state of a finished Pod to determine whether to
create a replacement Pod or mark the Job as completed or failed. As a result,
the Job controller depended on Pods, even terminated ones, to remain in the API
in order to keep track of the status.

This dependency made the tracking of Job status unreliable, because Pods can be
deleted from the API for a number of reasons, including:
- The garbage collector removing orphan Pods when a Node goes down.

> - The garbage collector removing terminated Pods when they reach a treshhold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The garbage collector removing terminated Pods when they reach a threshold.
```

- The Kubernetes scheduler preempting a Pod to accomodate higher priority Pods.
- The taint manager evicting a Pod that doesn't tolerate a `NoExecute` taint.
- External controllers, not included as part of Kubernetes, or humans deleting
  Pods.

## How did we fix the Job controller?

> When a controller needs to take an action on deleted objects, it should add a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a controller needs to take an action on objects before they are removed, it should add a
```

Author: Done

[finalizer](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/) to the
objects that it manages.

> A finalizer prevent the objects from being deleted from the API until the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A finalizer prevents the objects from being deleted from the API until the
```

and the Job. While the finalizer lives in the Pod object, the accounting lives
in the Job object. There is no mechanism to atomically remove the finalizer in
the Pod and update the counters in the Job status. And there could be more than
one terminated Pod at a given time.

To solve this problem, we implemented a three staged approach, each translating
to an API call.
1. Add the terminated Pod(s) UID into temporary lists in the Job status
   ([uncountedTerminatedPods](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/job-v1/#JobStatus)).
2. Remove the finalizer from the Pods(s).
3. Atomically remove UIDs from the temporary lists and increment the `succeeded`
   and `failed` counters.

Additional complications come from the fact that the Job controller might
receive the results of the API changes in steps 1 and 2 out of order. We solved
this by adding an in-memory cache for removed finalizers.

Still, we faced some issues during the beta stage that prompted us to disable
the feature in 1.23 and 1.24 ([#108645](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/108645),
[#109485](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/109485),

> [#111646](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/111646)).

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need to include the off-again/on-again bits in the blog post.

Author: I thought it could be valuable information about how complex the feature was so that developers think twice before trying to manage pods themselves instead of using the Job API.

Reviewer 2: Maybe instead of pointing them to issue write down a sentence or two about the issues you've faced and link to issue for more details.

Once resolved, we re-enabled the feature for the 1.25 release. Since then, we
have received reports from our customers running tens of thousands of Pods at a
time in their clusters through the Job API. With this success, we decided to
graduate the feature to stable in 1.26, as part of our long term commitment to
make the Job API the best way to run large batch Jobs in a Kubernetes cluster.

To learn more about the implementation, you can read the [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/2307-job-tracking-without-lingering-pods).

> ## How do I use this feature?

Reviewer: The "The problem" section and this section are the most important, in my opinion. The implementation is interesting but secondary from a user perspective. Maybe consider reordering the sections or finding a way to prioritize the use aspect somehow?

Reviewer 3: We could do parallel posts to the contributor site and main blog. See https://kubernetes.io/blog/2022/09/12/k8s-cve-feed-alpha/ and https://www.kubernetes.dev/blog/2022/09/12/k8s-cve-feed-alpha/ for an example.

Author: I rearranged the sections for now. If you still think it's too much for the main blog, we can do the split.

[Indexed completion mode](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#completion-mode).
In this mode, the control plane is able to track Job progress with less API
calls.

If you are a developer of operator(s) for batch, HPC, AI/ML or related workloads,
we encourage you to use the Job API to delegate accurate progress tracking to
Kubernetes. If there is something missing in the Job API that forces you to
manage plain Pods, we would welcome your feedback and contributions in the
[Working Group Batch](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-batch).

### Deprecation notices

During the development of the feature, the control plane added the annotation
`batch.kubernetes.io/job-tracking` to Jobs created when the feature is enabled.
This allowed a safe transition for older Jobs, but it was never meant to stay.

In the 1.26 release, we deprecated the annotation `batch.kubernetes.io/job-tracking`
and the control plane will stop adding it in Kubernetes 1.27.
Along with that change, we will remove the legacy Job tracking implementation.
As a result, the job controller will track all Jobs using finalizers and it will

> ignore from calculations all Pods that don't already have a finalizer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ignore all Pods that don't already have the aforementioned finalizer.
```

Before you upgrade your cluster to 1.27, we recommend that you verify that there
are no running Jobs that don't have the annotation. Otherwise, you might observe
the control plane recreating some Pods. We expect that this shouldn't affect
any users, as the feature is enabled by default since Kubernetes 1.25.

## What problem does the new implementation solve?

Generally, Kubernetes workload controllers, such as ReplicaSet or StatefulSet,
rely on the existence of Pods or other objects in the API to determine the

> status of the Workload and whether replacements are needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
status of the workload and whether replacements are needed.
```

For example, if a Pod that belonged to a ReplicaSet terminates or ceases to
exist, the ReplicaSet controller needs to create a replacement Pod to satisfy

> the `.spec.replicas` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the desired number of replicas (`.spec.replicas`).
```

Since its inception, the Job controller also relied on the existence of Pods in
the API to track Job status. A Job has [completion](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#completion-mode)
and [failure handling](/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/job/#handling-pod-and-container-failures)
policies, requiring the end state of a finished Pod to determine whether to
create a replacement Pod or mark the Job as completed or failed. As a result,
the Job controller depended on Pods, even terminated ones, to remain in the API

> in order to keep track of the status.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a link here to an issue describing in details that the other downside of this is that you need to keep the pods on the nodes, because the pod gc can't remove them, this is known fact for folks using k8s, but might not be obvious to others.

When a controller needs to take an action on objects before they are removed, it
should add a [finalizer](/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/)
to the objects that it manages.
A finalizer prevents the objects from being deleted from the API until the
finalizers are removed. Once the controller is done doing cleanup and accounting
for the deleted object, it can remove the finalizer from the object and the
control plane removes the object from the API.

This is what the new Job controller is doing: adding a finalizer during Pod
creation, and removing it after the Pod terminates and is accounted for in the
Job status. However, it wasn't that simple.

The main challenge is that there are at least two objects involved: the Pod
and the Job. While the finalizer lives in the Pod object, the accounting lives
in the Job object. There is no mechanism to atomically remove the finalizer in
the Pod and update the counters in the Job status. And there could be more than
one terminated Pod at a given time.

To solve this problem, we implemented a three staged approach, each translating
to an API call.
1. Add the terminated Pod(s) UID into temporary lists in the Job status

>    ([uncountedTerminatedPods](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/job-v1/#JobStatus)).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ([.status.uncountedTerminatedPods](/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/job-v1/#JobStatus)).
```

2. Remove the finalizer from the Pods(s).
3. Atomically remove UIDs from the temporary lists and increment the `succeeded`

>    and `failed` counters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   and `failed` counters in the Job's status.
```

Additional complications come from the fact that the Job controller might
receive the results of the API changes in steps 1 and 2 out of order. We solved
this by adding an in-memory cache for removed finalizers.

Still, we faced some issues during the beta stage that prompted us to disable
the feature in 1.23 and 1.24 ([#108645](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/108645),
[#109485](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/109485),
[#111646](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/111646)).

Once resolved, we re-enabled the feature for the 1.25 release. Since then, we
have received reports from our customers running tens of thousands of Pods at a
time in their clusters through the Job API. With this success, we decided to
graduate the feature to stable in 1.26, as part of our long term commitment to
make the Job API the best way to run large batch Jobs in a Kubernetes cluster.

> To learn more about the implementation, you can read the [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/2307-job-tracking-without-lingering-pods).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To learn more about the feature, you can read the [KEP](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-apps/2307-job-tracking-without-lingering-pods).
```

implementation details are in the source code, no :wink: ?

## Acknowledgments

As in any Kubernetes feature, multiple people contributed to get this done,
from testing and filing bugs to reviewing code.

I would like to specially thank Jordan Liggitt (Google) for helping me debug
and brainstorm solutions for more than one race condition. And Maciej Szulik

> (RedHat) for his concious reviews.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(Red Hat) for his concious reviews.
```
:wink:

---
layout: blog
title: "Scalable Job tracking goes GA to support massively parallel batch workloads"
date: 2022-12-01
slug: "scalable-job-tracking-ga"
---

**Authors:** Aldo Culquicondor (Google)

> The Kubernetes 1.26 release includes a stable implementation of the Job

Reviewer 4: nits:
```suggestion
The Kubernetes v1.26 release includes a stable implementation of the Job
```
